For this I'm restarting my local development server with ionic Onyx so that I can also viewed as in
the browser first before we have a look at it on mobile devices and let's then go to our location picker
component.
There we have that button that right now always triggers that map modal to open up where users can pick
and address.
Now thus far that of course worked quite well but now I want to provide alternative.
One I'll allow users to pick a location by locating by auto locating them and to enable this.
I want to show an access sheet which prompts the user whether he wants to pick up place on a map or
whether the user wants to.
Well auto locate himself and they offer in the location picker component.
We should inject the action sheet controller action sheet controller
from at ionic angular as we did before in this course as well of course and with the action sheet controller
injected in on pick location which is the method fired when we click this button.
I will not immediately open up that model instead here I will use that action sheet controller to create
my action sheet and in that action sheet here I'll have a header where I say please choose or whatever
you like and then I'll have my buttons and there I need different buttons I want to have two buttons
basically or free buttons here actually the first button has a text of auto locate and of course you
can named as however you want and there will need a handler function that does indeed use that geo location
plug in the second button will have a text of pick on map and that there and our handler function will
have to open that model and then the last button will be the cancel button.
I will not add my own handler here.
Instead what I'll do here is I'll just set a roll and set that roll to cancel so that is the action
sheet which we create in the then block.
We then get the action sheet element which is created for us.
We can use that element to present it.
Now we will have different scenarios here.
Now let me grab that code with the map modal here and actually outsourced is it into a new private method
which I'll name open map like this.
And then there I'll execute that code for the mode lands on and in this handler here for pick on map.
I'll just call this open map because I want to execute that logic which we previously ran all the time.
Here in this handler I want to automatically locate the user and for Dad I'll add another new method
locate user.
Sounds like a fitting name.
And then there will use a capacitor plug in one of the baked in core plugins to be precise which will
automatically log locate the user.
So here in this handler we call this locate user.
Fine.
So now we have these different scenarios in locate user.
I now want to use capacitor and to be precise I want to use the geo location plug in here.
Now here you learn how to use it and the first important step whenever you're using any plugin is that
you should check what you need to set up regarding the permissions because on both as an android you
need to specify which permissions your app is going to need and also provide messages that are shown
to the user when the device prompts the user for that permission and therefore you should always check
these plugin notes and we learn that for a geo location we have that location always usage description
we have to set for ISIS and that went in usage description and for Android we have to add these keys
here to the Android manifest X AML file.
Let's start with I was so in the project here in the IRS folder in the app folder and there in the app
folder you'll have that info populist file and then here you should check for D keys you find here and
as location always usage description and as location went in the usage description and if they're not
there you have to set them on your own here however they are and here are messages between these string
tags which you can customize to your likings.
I will go with the default ones.
So nothing to do for us.
Let's check Android there in the app folder under source main.
We find the android manifest excel file and here we learned that we should have that user's permissions
element with access course location then the same with access find location and then that uses features
tag here.
So let's check for that.
If we scroll down here we have a permissions area and here you see indeed discourse course and the fine
location and also that uses feature.
Thing is basically already set up for you know on the other hand since this is a default here.
If you build an application that does not need that feature you might want to consider removing these
permissions requests 0 or D permissions descriptions because you're basically indicating that you need
permissions that you don't actually need.
And of course you want to ensure that your application needs as little permissions as possible.
So here however we don't have to do anything permissions are all set up and therefore we can now use
that geo location plugin just as before.
This starts by importing plug ins from at capacitor core and justice before I will.
All they import capacitor because this now allows me to go down to locate user which is where we want
you all to locate the user and there I can first of all check capacitor is plugging away lable and then
the name is geo location and make sure you type this correctly of course if this is not the case and
hence I checked the opposite then I want to return here I don't want to continue off the next code though
we probably should also give the user some indication that this failed and that he should use the map
and therefore he could either automatically open the map or as I will do it here fro an alert with the
alert controller which you have to inject from at eye on a angle or of course just as the average controllers.
And then here in that scenario here I will create an alert with a header of could not fetch location
and then a message where we say please use the map to pick a location or anything like that.
So this is our fallback for cases for scenarios where we just can't use the geo location plugin for
whichever reason for example because the platform the application runs on thousands reported.
Maybe this runs on an older browser and therefore it's not a whale.
If we make it past does it check we know that the plugin is available.
So now we can access plugins dot geo location and then here we want to use to get current position method
which does just what it sounds like.
This gives us a promise and we definitely should catch errors here as well because an error can occur
for any reason.
For example we theoretically have a platform where we can fetch the location but we currently just can't
get a location because the G.P.S. signal is weak or anything like that.
So we definitely want to handle the error and I want to show the same alert I have here and therefore
all cut cut this code here and add a new private method show error alert or any name you want.
And of course you're creating a dissolve and not enough we get that alert element and then block and
therefore we then of course all the want to present that so we should do this here as well.
But now we can call this show
error alert here and also do this in the catch block here.
If we do have an error in a then block we should have a position and that you position will have the
structure you can find here on the official docks.
If you have a look at get current location here at the bottom you'll see that we'll have a course field
and that will basically be a javascript object with a latitude and longitude field.
So here we basically get our coordinates and I'll named us coordinates which is of type coordinates
you might remember that we defined coordinates in our own location model file that is an interface we
defined here.
So I'm creating such a coordinates object here and the value is a javascript object that needs a land
key and that land key can be retrieved from DU position here from that argument we're getting and that
Geo position object we're getting will have a coords field and the coords field here will have a latitude
field and similarly for the LNG key we have to set we can get you position coords and then it would
be a long etude like that.